Two, three, four, one, two, three.
Four.
This is Monday, February 26th.
Yes, sir.
Out in the beautiful new home of Charles and Diana Hall out on Kemp Road, not far from the river west of the campus.
And we're going to start off by chatting about his student days here.
First of all, introduce yourself by where
Talk about your family.
Grew up where?
Went to school where?
Describe yourself before coming to Texas A&M.
Well, I was born in the woods outside of LaRue, Texas in Henderson County.
Athens is the county seat.
21 of May 1933.
Shortly thereafter my father who was a sixth grade dropout, still trying to farm, moved to the Rio Grande Valley near Wesley Cole, Texas looking for a little better wage than he got in the cotton patch in East Texas.
Ran a service station, ran a nice house, farmed, anything to
Yep, put food and shelter for four children.
I'm the second of four sons.
In 1939, we moved from the Rio Grande Valley to Aransas Pass, just 19 miles up the coast from Corpus, and I went from the first through the ninth grades at Aransas Pass
And it was during this time, during my last year there, my freshman year in high school in 1946, that I had the wonderful fortune of meeting Miss Ree McCullough, who was dating an Aggie somewhere off in some mysterious place called College Station, Texas.
That Aggie, by the way, his name was Charlie.
I wish I knew what his last name was so I could find him again to find her.
But she was always coming to College Station to visit Charlie and vice versa and always talking about Texas A&M and all the wonderful things that they did.
And just by having that exposure to Miss McCullough, for the first time in my life, I thought about
the possibility of even going to college and having been raised on the farm.
Farming was the only thing that I ever thought that I would want to do and all of this was reinforced with all of the movies that all of us kids saw in those days.
So I immediately began to think there's only one place for me and that's Texas A&M, wherever it is.
Then after that freshman year we moved 26 miles up the road to Senton, Texas and I was a Senton pirate for one year.
My father by this time had become a deputy sheriff and they promoted him to the chief deputy sheriff of San Patricio County under Sheriff Tomlinson and he wanted Dad closer so we moved up to the county seat at Senton.
Dad ran for sheriff
the following year and was defeated and it upset him terribly.
He would not pay the Padron for the 250 block votes that they promised him if he would just shell over the cash and my dad was an honest man and that was one of
my good fortunes was having a good honest Christian mother and father.
Anyway dad lost the race and he was very unhappy at that point in time in his life and his older brother in Dallas called him and said come to Dallas I want to hire you to work in my wholesale hardware business.
And on Sunday September
The 11th, 1948, we moved to Dallas.
And the next day, I started to school at Woodrow Wilson High School, a three-year school, 10th, 11th, and 12th grades with 1,300 students, coming from Sinton with 150 in four grades.
I was a country boy in the big town.
and very unhappy, very, very unhappy.
I had played all of the sports as a freshman and sophomore, and I refused to participate in anything except go to school.
Fortunately for me, as is the case anywhere in the United States, there are good people who came to my rescue and aid in the form of
Kids of my age met primarily in the church, Lakewood Methodist Church, that we became members of.
And they quickly became fast friends.
I never thought that you could have good friends in a big city from what I'd been told about them.
I've subsequently learned that they even grow good people in New York City.
My daughter lives there now, one of them.
Anyways, I went through my junior year without participating in any extracurricular activities.
Fortunately again for me, Woodrow Wilson had an ROTC program and I became a part of that and for two years I took ROTC and got a basic understanding of what the military was all about and liked it.
Senior year I went out for football and track.
I certainly didn't distinguish myself but I played football as a
My head coach was named Jim Riley.
Head coach was named Jungle Jim Riley, a great fellow.
Coach Riley was a good man.
One thing that stands out in my memory from my senior year on the track team, we had a good mile relay team.
You may know Sam Blair, longtime reporter for the Dallas Morning News, and he's written a number of books, I don't know, a dozen by now probably, and one on A&M.
I've got several copies of it over there in my bookshelf.
Sam was a member of the team and myself, and the anchorman was a kid named Jack Dunlap,
We called him one lap done lap.
That was all he was good for, but he was good for a good closing lap on that mile relay.
And we won the Dallas City Championship.
But that wasn't the most memorable event.
We then went to stage meet in Houston and stayed in the brand new Shamrock Hotel.
Wow.
A big deal.
I'll never forget being very responsible and conscientious.
I went to bed early that night, unlike many of my teammates who went to see the big city.
And I developed out of anxiety, I'm sure, the worst headache I've ever had in my life.
And I couldn't go to sleep.
And at 4 o'clock in the morning, I finally said, I've got to do something.
My head is going to split wide open.
I got up, got my clothes on, went downstairs and found Bell Boy.
And I said, listen, I've got to have some aspirin.
I'll even give you a dollar if you'll just get me two.
Now a dollar was big stuff in 1950.
And he promptly showed up with two aspirin and I took them.
So I got about two hours sleep that night.
And that was about two hours more than one lap Dunlap got.
I think he stayed out.
and drank all night long.
And at the track, he was dry heaving as he got there.
And oh my goodness, Coach Jamison was the track coach and I'll never forget.
He was so disturbed about
Jack Dunlap, but anyway, he said, you're gonna run if it kills you.
We ran, but needless to say, we were the last one in our heat and that was the end of our state meet and Jack threw up right before and right after his 440 lap.
That finished off my senior year.
and I was looking forward anxiously to going to A&M.
I didn't know how.
Had you visited yet?
I have never set foot on the campus yet, but the dream is all in my head.
And so at some time down about graduation and before I went to work for that summer, Dad sat down to talk to me
He said, Charles, I know you want to go to A&M, but SMU is only three miles down the road from where we live.
And rent is free, and your food is free.
He said, you could go to SMU, and it's a better school than A&M.
And, of course, this was the time of Doak Walker and Kyle Rote and all of that bunch and all the national...
publicity that they were getting, and SMU was an attractive school, but it wasn't me.
Anyway, being the loyal son, back in those days, it's so different.
I don't have to explain it to you, but you did what your parents wanted you to do.
They supported you, and you supported them, and you were a family, and
My parents were good parents and they wanted me to go to SMU even though even yet money was tied in our family.
I remember that dad was making $500 a month which was not bad but we lived in a new home and there were four of us so there wasn't a whole lot of extra money as you can imagine but anyway I went to SMU for that semester
and signed up for just general studies, not knowing anything about what I wanted to study at SMU.
I remember I studied Spanish and geology and English, and I took ROTC, surprisingly, because I liked ROTC, and they had a unit there at SMU, so I took ROTC that semester in physical education.
Anyway, at Christmas time at the family gathering,
Mom and Dad said they wanted to talk to me.
By the way, my older brother was, had quit high school in his senior year and joined the Marine Corps for four years.
And this was, remember, Korean War started in June of 1950.
And here I was in SMU and there he was in the Marine Corps.
Anyway, that's another reason for me to want to study ROTC quite well and learn how to be a soldier properly.
Mom and Dad said, hey, look, we recognize that SMU is not doing you any good and you're not doing SMU any good and you're very unhappy, which was oh so true again.
And they say, said, if you want to go to A&M, fine with us.
You may not have been here in January 1951.
I probably weren't.
No telling where you were.
But January 1951 was one of the worst ice storms that this part of the world has ever seen.
I drove from Dallas by myself in January through that ice storm.
There was about six inches of ice and snow on the road all the way.
It took me all day long.
just to drive here.
I couldn't go over 30 miles an hour, and several times I was heading in the wrong direction, but I was the only fool on the road.
I got down here and set foot on this campus for the first time in January of 1951 to register.
Do you remember any letter?
Did you apply in advance?
Did you write down?
Oh, I didn't make any contact in advance.
I showed up.
Here I am.
I'm going to enroll in this school.
Do you remember where you, what building you walked into to do that?
I went to the agricultural college to start with.
Now where did I go from there to actually?
Registration had already occurred.
This was down in the 20s of January, 20-something, and I was registering late.
So I wound up in the College of Agriculture, where I wanted to be, and I had to be sent from one department to the other to fit into the classes.
Wasn't any problem with numbers.
I mean, you know, there weren't but less than 6,000 here then.
And surprisingly, I wound up living in Hart Hall, the athletic dorm.
Why?
I had a number of friends, but one in particular from Aransas Pass who had been given a scholarship to A&M and some from Dallas.
Berman Gleiser was a tackle at Woodrow that got a scholarship down here.
Hal said, I don't have a roommate, just come over and move in with me.
We didn't even ask anybody.
We just went over and moved in with them.
And I lived in the athletic dorm, participated in the ROTC activities with them and lived there for one semester.
That was the spring semester of 1951 and had a ball until
mid-semester grades came out.
Seventeen-year-old, away from home the first time, wide-eyed and bushy-tailed, but still, you know, responsible.
Because when I got my grade report, I said, I am in trouble and I am going to get in high gear or they are going to kick me out because that's what they said they were going to do.
And they told me what I had to do
on probation to stay in school.
Do you remember who it was that gave you that advice or counsel?
Was there a particular person that you?
No, it wasn't personal counsel.
It was in the form of a letter with my grades.
Oh, okay.
So.
That if I didn't make
A certain GPA, and I don't remember what they said.
I would be dismissed from the college, certainly still a college.
But I buckled up.
But I'll say this.
I flunked freshman chemistry, a four-hour course, as you well remember.
And I made 14 hours.
Flunked those fours, taken 18.
That was the average load in those days.
I made 14 hours and 15 grade points that first semester.
But in those days, an A was a three.
Correct.
So you had a two point by today's standards.
Yes.
And they let me stay.
And I could see that,
Living in the athletic dorm was detrimental to my academic success.
There was an awful lot of nonsense that went on over there.
I mean, that was the name of their game, nonsense.
Describe some of it.
Oh, my guess.
Well, I never forget things like Bobby Jack Price, who was a sophomore.
Big tackle about.
for those days, about 6'4 and about 2.30, and he liked to wield the broom, and I'm telling you, when they used the broom on you, there was no handle left when it got through.
The first lick, the handle was gone, and then they beat you with what was left, and I mean beat you.
Guys coming in in the middle of the night,
So and so, I'm gonna get you.
You better barricade that.
Did you all do anything in retaliation sometimes?
Oh, yes.
I got the sweetest revenge of my life, but this came years later.
Bobby Dixon was a big tackle on the football team in those days.
He was a senior when I was, after I had gone back,
to the athletic dorm, Hart Hall.
He was a senior and Bobby was a big drinker.
In fact, Bobby was, how do I say this?
Bobby influenced me by his peer pressure.
At the end of my sophomore year, we were headed for the Shamrock Hotel again
for the athletic, for the football banquet where we give the awards out and the letters and whatever.
I'd never had a drink of alcohol in my life and I'd finished my sophomore year
And we went down Highway 6 to go to Houston and stopped just outside of town somewhere that maybe is in the next county.
I think it's still dry here.
You know, he had to go across Whiskey Bridge.
I guess it was down toward Navasota, Grimes County.
He stopped and got a case of beer, a case.
And Bobby's a big guy and he can handle about two-thirds of a case by himself.
But he kept heckling me.
I was sitting in the back seat.
heckling me about, you know, I was a wimp and I couldn't, couldn't drink a beer even if I wanted to, you know, you know.
And finally I said, Bobby, give me a beer and I'll show you.
I can remember to this day, it was one of those foul tasting slits.
I hated the taste of it, hated it.
I took it, popped it, and I just swizzled the whole 12 ounces.
just to show him that I could do it.
And surprisingly to everyone, and about, of course he was trying to get me to rank another one immediately and I wouldn't do it, but in about five minutes, I learned what beer does to me.
I started giggling.
Everything that I saw and everything that anybody said was funny.
And we wound up laughing all the way to Houston.
Just over one beer.
And then the closer we got to Shamrock, I got to worry about, gee, where do you suppose I'll sit at this banquet?
And who's going to be smelling my breath?
And sure enough, right where you're sitting and in a table a little narrower than this one, big long hotel banquet tables lined up one another in a big T-shape, Gil Stonkey, my backfield coach, was sitting right in front of me.
And I'm sitting there.
breathe it somewhere except across the table.
But if the truth were known, I'll bet you his breast talked worse than mine did.
Now, for you as a, let's say, would you, were you called a frog?
Oh, yes.
Transferred after one semester?
I was called a frog.
just that one semester, and that's the lowest thing on earth, as you know, and they said it with just such harsh tones in their voice.
And being a frog was worse than being a fish, wasn't it?
Absolutely.
Oh, absolutely.
That's the lowest thing on campus was a frog.
Now, and the fact that you had frogged in from SMU, was that also?
Well, there was nothing worse except if I came from west of here.
Okay.
for football?
Yes, sir.
I went out for spring training in the spring of 52.
Describe that.
Well, I'll start by saying that Ray George was the kindest, most, I just have to say, wonderful gentleman that I've ever known in athletics.
Was this his first year?
No, it was Ray George's
Second or third year.
And he followed Coach Norton, didn't he?
No, he followed Harry Steitler.
Oh, that's right.
That's right.
Harry Steitler got himself in trouble with, you know.
Yeah.
He followed Steitler.
And I loved him.
He was a big, jolly giant, you know, an ex-pro lineman.
Maybe he wasn't the best coach in the world, but
He was sure a good role model for kids.
I love him to this very day.
Coach Michalski was also an ex NFL lineman who was a line coach and we all loved him as well.
And I went out in the spring of 1952 and
Caught the coach's eye because I'm, you know, a real hard worker.
I don't have much talent, but I give it everything I've got.
And he told me during spring training, if I did well at the beginning of the fall, he'd give me a scholarship.
And long and short of that was, gave me a scholarship, which was sorely needed.
90 cents a day for their OOTC contract the last two years.
Man, I was in tall cotton.
Tall cotton.
But football season of 52, just remembered for two or three things.
I was still really working hard trying to make the team.
I couldn't believe it.
This was far and beyond any dream that I ever had, playing football for the school that I loved dearly.
We went up to play the number one team in the United States, Michigan State, at East Lansing, Michigan that fall in a preseason game, and they were tough.
They already had a bunch of black boys on their team.
I'd never seen a black boy in uniform, but they were good.
We held them pretty good in the first half.
At the beginning, let's see, was it the beginning of the second half?
My memory's not that good, but I believe that's correct.
We came back out on the field and Coach George walked up behind me and said, Charlie, I'm going to start you, second half.
He said, they're kicking off to us, you go in and take the kickoff.
My eyes got big as saucers.
Anyway, they kicked off, and surprisingly, they kicked it right to me, and surprisingly, I caught it.
And I ran up the field like a scared jackrabbit just as fast as I could go, and I thought I was gone.
And those black boys, and they were two of them, came from either side and hit me at the same time.
And I went that way and the ball went that way straight up.
And I fumbled that ball and they recovered it on about our 40-yard line.
And that was the longest trip going back to that bench.
You know how you felt.
And I walked by Coach George and he put his arm around me and said, Charlie, I give you a chance and look what you do.
And he patted me.
And I went over and sat down and I said, I'll never play again this season.
And they really selected us in the second half.
It was 40-something to seven, the final score, which is about what it should have been.
Next week we were getting ready to play the first Southwest Conference
opening game and we were doing calisthenics down and I can still remember the very place on Kyle Field down in the south end we were doing pre-game warm-ups and Coach George walked up behind me and said, Charlie you're going to start today.
So that, that, I got some redemption I had a pretty good game that, I wasn't a star I was just a hard-working player
And we did have two-platoon football that year.
The very next year, they started messing with it and going to, they changed the rules up so bad it was horrible.
But anyway, under two-platoon when I was playing just offense, I enjoyed playing the game that way.
To play 60 minutes a game, you have to be an iron man.
And by the fourth quarter, you know, all you got left is guts to play on.
But anyway.
I had a pretty good season that year in lettered and really got to know the guys well.
One little incident that I want to relay to you, you might remember Jack Little, two-time All-American tackle, 6'4", 234.
I can still see him standing on the scales, weighing in.
A real man among boys, at least among this boy.
And in the very first play of football at A&M in the spring of 52, the very first play, I was playing right halfback on a T formation.
They set me left and my mission was to block Jack Little.
Do you know how I remember that, Haskell?
I remember being a bothersome gnat on his butt and nothing more.
He swatted me off like I was insignificant.
I thought, my God, are all these guys this tough?
He was one man.
In those days, where in the dining halls did y'all eat?
We ate in a corner of Cebiza.
Oh, Cebiza.
Cebiza.
And did you all eat any food that was different from everybody else?
Oh, absolutely.
During football season only.
What kind of, what was the menu in those days?
The menu was usually
lots of meat, steaks, that was the basics, lots of potatoes and whatever you wanted, lots of kush, all of it you wanted.
The thing about it though, when you had a football practice with Coach George, and maybe, maybe this is one of the reasons why he was fired, you could
generally go down to Cebiza and eat a meal after practice.